About Downtown Dubai
Luxurious  •  Centrally Located  •  Many Attractions  •  Family-Friendly  •  Metro Station
Downtown is Dubai’s crown jewel: it hosts the city’s best tourist attractions, such as Burj Khalifa and Dubai Mall. It also offers an array of housing, entertainment, and shopping options that never fail to impress. As the name suggests, it’s at the heart of Dubai, located along Sheikh Zayed Road next to Business Bay.

 

It's easily accessible by the Burj Khalifa/ Dubai Mall metro station as well as buses and taxis. Downtown Dubai is a hub of activity, with regular shows and festivals, hotels, and fine dining restaurants, there’s never a dull moment. Dubai Opera is also in the area, and it hosts a variety of events such as concerts, theater plays, ballet, opera, conferences, and exhibits.

Key Highlights
Centrally Located
Home to Dubai’s most popular attractions such as Burj Khalifa, Dubai Mall, and the Dubai Fountain
The beating heart of Dubai
Vibrant lifestyle filled with events & activities
Holistic community with all kinds of amenities
Attractions & Things to Do in Downtown Dubai:
Whether you want to relax, party, or shop, Downtown is the place to be. It attracts flocks of tourists and residents alike since it has it all. Emaar Properties developed the area to be all-inclusive and attract people from all over the world.

Burj Khalifa tops the list of attractions in Downtown Dubai. You can admire its glittering lights up close or go to the observation deck, ‘At the Top’ to get panoramic views of the city from the 124th floor. But even if you’re not interested in acting like a tourist, you can marvel at the Burj from the many restaurants and hotels that overlook it.

Speaking of restaurants and hotels, there are countless options to choose from, offering all kinds of cuisines and stunning views. As for hotels, you can pamper yourself at the spas and infinity pools at a number of luxurious hotels, such as Address Skyview, Sofitel Dubai Downtown, and Armani Hotel by the Burj Khalifa.

When it comes to shopping, nothing beats Dubai Mall, with over 1,200 shops from a wide range of brands. However, Dubai Mall is a universe of its own that offers far more than just shopping. It’s home to many attractions such as The Dubai Fountain, Dubai Aquarium & Underwater Zoo, Dubai Ice Rink, and KidZania.

If you’re craving a taste of heritage, head to Souk Al Bahar to dine and shop for traditional items such as carpets and handicrafts in an old-souk setting. Meanwhile, if you need to relax or take a walk, Burj Park is a great option. Enjoy walking or cycling with a view of Burj Khalifa and the Dubai Fountain.

Lifestyle & Real Estate in Downtown Dubai
The lifestyle in Downtown Dubai is quite upscale, with a variety of luxurious amenities and leisure options available. People from all nationalities live here, testifying to Dubai’s diverse culture. 

Moreover, Downtown Dubai has pretty much everything a community should have. The area is brimming with cafés, restaurants, and nighttime venues, many with views of the Dubai Fountain.

Meanwhile, parents can find several nurseries and kid’s clubs to entertain their children. Another major perk of living in Downtown Dubai is its excellent connectivity to the rest of the city. It’s centrally located and has direct access to public transportation like the Burj Khalifa/Dubai Mall metro station, as well as buses and taxis.

Properties in Downtown Dubai
Real estate in Downtown Dubai is quite opulent. In fact, the area is among the most popular choices for those looking for luxury apartments for rent in Dubai.

However, the apartments for sale in Downtown Dubai are also quite popular among investors, thanks to the area’s evergreen value. In fact, Downtown Dubai was the second most popular area for apartment sales in Dubai in 2024, according to Property Finder’s Market Watch Report.

While it’s primarily a vertical community offering apartments, penthouses, and hotel apartments, there are a few villas available in Downtown Dubai.

Properties here come in a variety of designs, from contemporary skyscrapers to low-rise Arabesque buildings, appealing to different tastes.

While Downtown Dubai is known for its sprawling skyscrapers, its Old Town offers quaint low-rise buildings in old Arabian architectural styles.

Property Prices in Downtown Dubai
Rent price: starting from 70k AED 
Sale price: starting from 800k AED 
Rental Yield: 6% 
Top 5 Towers & Subcommunities in Downtown Dubai
Burj Khalifa Area
Home to Burj Khalifa, the world’s tallest building, this area offers extremely luxurious residences, exclusive dining, and breathtaking views of the Dubai Fountain and city skyline. 

Developer: Emaar Properties
Property Types: Studios, 1-5 bedroom apartments, penthouses, and serviced residences
Amenities: Gyms, indoor and outdoor pools, spa, concierge services, direct access to The Dubai Mall, and the world’s highest observation decks
Opera District
Home to Dubai Opera, the Opera District is a cultural and artistic hub in Downtown Dubai. This district features luxury high-rises with modern architecture, offering unmatched views of Burj Khalifa and The Dubai Fountain.

Developer: Emaar Properties
Property Types: 1-4 bedroom apartments, and penthouses
Amenities: upscale fitness centers, infinity pools, rooftop lounges, and direct access to Dubai Opera and Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Boulevard
Downtown Views II
A modern residential complex offering panoramic views of Burj Khalifa, The Dubai Fountain, and Zabeel Park, combining urban luxury with convenience.

Developer: Emaar Properties
Property Types: 1-4 bedroom apartments
Amenities: swimming pool, fully equipped gym, multipurpose hall
The Address Residences Dubai Opera
A branded luxury residence with hotel-style services, located steps from Dubai Opera, offering spectacular views of Burj Khalifa and the skyline with a refined lifestyle.

Developer: Emaar Properties
Property Types: 1-5 bedroom serviced apartments and penthouses
Amenities: Infinity pool, gym, lounges, 24/7 concierge
The Address Residence Fountain Views
An iconic three-tower development offering unobstructed views of The Dubai Fountain and Burj Khalifa, with five-star hospitality and fine dining experiences.

Developer: Emaar Properties
Property Types: 1-4 bedroom apartments and penthouses
Amenities: Infinity pool, gym, spa, steam, sauna, restaurants, and a kids’ club
Off-Plan Properties in Downtown Dubai
There are many off-plan projects in Downtown Dubai which include: 

Sofitel Residences by Azha
Delivery Date: December 2026

Property Types: 1 - 3 bedroom apartments, 4 - 5 bedroom penthouses

Developer: Azha Development

Fairmont Residences Solara Tower By Sol
Delivery Date: August 2027

Property Types: 1 - 5 bedroom apartments

Developer: Sol Properties

Volta Tower
Delivery Date: June 2028

Property Types: 1 - 4 bedroom apartments

Developer: Damac Properties

Baccarat Hotel & Residences
Delivery Date: May 2027

Property Types: 2 - 5 bedroom apartments

Developer: H&H Development

Address Grand Downtown
Delivery Date: June 2028

Property Types: 3 - 5 bedroom apartments

Developer: Nshama

One Residence
Delivery Date: March 2027

Property Types: studio, 1, and 2-bedroom apartments

Developer: Ginco Properties

Search Trends in Downtown Dubai
Investors and home seekers looking for properties in Downtown Dubai frequently search for these amenities on Property Finder: 

Balcony
Shared Pool
Shared Gym
Central A/C
Maids Room
And they’re looking for these perks:

Brand New
Burj Khalifa View
Chiller free
Explore the most in-demand properties in Downtown Dubai
Chiller-free apartments for rent in Downtown Dubai

Apartments with Burj Khalifa View for Sale in Downtown Dubai

Apartments with Burj Khalifa View for Rent in Downtown Dubai

Apartments with Maid’s Room for Rent in Downtown Dubai

Apartments with Gym for Rent in Downtown Dubai

Apartments for rent in Downtown Dubai Near Metro Station

Apartments for rent in Downtown Dubai with Balcony



Price Insights

Rent
Apartment
Average prices
Type	Avg. Price (AED/ year)
Studio	86,000
1 Bedroom	133,000
2 Bedrooms	204,000
3 Bedrooms	348,000
4 Bedrooms	996,000
5 Bedrooms	1,442,000


Rent
Villa
Average prices
Type	Avg. Price (AED/ year)
3 Bedrooms	314,000


Rent
Penthouse
Average prices
Type	Avg. Price (AED/ year)
4 Bedrooms	1,393,000
5 Bedrooms	1,550,000


Rent
Duplex
Average prices
Type	Avg. Price (AED/ year)
2 Bedrooms	243,000


Buy
Apartment
Average prices
Type	Avg. Price (AED)
Studio	1,318,000
1 Bedroom	2,204,000
2 Bedrooms	3,587,000
3 Bedrooms	6,164,000
4 Bedrooms	12,881,000
5 Bedrooms	34,502,000
6 Bedrooms	120,000,000


Buy
Villa
Average prices
Type	Avg. Price (AED)
3 Bedrooms	9,180,000
5 Bedrooms	13,322,000


Buy
Penthouse
Average prices
Type	Avg. Price (AED)
2 Bedrooms	6,739,000
3 Bedrooms	13,395,000
4 Bedrooms	19,562,000
5 Bedrooms	39,977,000
6 Bedrooms	105,000,000


Buy
Duplex
Average prices
Type	Avg. Price (AED)
4 Bedrooms	11,461,000




Frequently asked questions

1. Where is Downtown Dubai located?
Downtown Dubai is perfectly located in the center of Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The vibrant area is home to Dubai’s iconic landmarks like Burj Khalifa, Dubai Fountain, and Dubai Mall which makes it on everyone’s bucket list.
One of the main features of Downtown Dubai is its prime location as it lies between Old and New Dubai. The recognizable community is a good fit for high-earning professionals working in DIFC and Business Bay. If you’re working in one of the companies nearby then Downtown is a perfect option for you to live in. In addition, it’s one of the most exclusive neighborhoods in Dubai.

2. How far is Downtown Dubai to the most popular attractions?
Living in Downtown means enjoying the most popular attractions and communities in a matter of minutes. No just that, rush hours are no longer your nightmare. Whatever the place you're heading to, you'll reach it effortlessly.
With Old Dubai to the north, the beach to the west, the Marina to the south, and the desert to the east, from Downtown Dubai, you’re never too far from anything else in Dubai:
City Walk: 6 minutes away
Bay Square: 8 minutes away
Dubai International Financial Center: 10 minutes away
Business Bay: 10 minutes away
Dubai Bowling Center: 11 minutes away
World Trade Center: 11 minutes away
Dubai International Airport: 15 minutes away
Dubai Creek Harbour: 16 minutes away
Emirates Mall: 19 minutes away
Dubai Marina: 21 minutes away

3. What is the commute time from…?
Bur Dubai to Downtown Dubai: 10 minutes
Jumeirah Beach to Downtown Dubai: 13 minutes
Palm Jumeirah to Downtown Dubai: 18 minutes
Deira to Downtown Dubai: 20 minutes


4. What are the transportation options in Downtown Dubai?
It can’t get much easier when it comes to transportation in Downtown Dubai. Whatever the transportation option that comforts you, it’s available in the community. You can check the below choices:

Metro: The nearest metro station to Downtown Dubai is Burj khalifa/Dubai Mall metro station. You can easily walk to the station or take a taxi to it if you're staying a bit farther away.
Bus: There are many bus stops in Downtown Dubai, including:
The Dubai Mall
Burj View Central Tower 1
Burj View Central Tower 2
Burj Khalifa, The Palace Hotel
Taxi: You can take a taxi as it has many stops there, or use Uber/Careem application and book your ride in seconds.


5. What are the community facilities in Downtown Dubai?
No worries about facilities in Downtown Dubai as it’s located in the heart of the city. Everything that makes your stay more comfy is offered with a variety of options to suit different budgets.

Park
Hotels
Supermarkets
Health clinics
Malls
Restaurants
Cafes
Banks
Parkings
Dubai Opera
Nursery
Mosques


6. What are the best hotels within Downtown Dubai?
Your stay at one of Downtown Dubai’s hotels is totally different from any other hotel as it is home to the finest and top-rated hotels in the Emirates. Going to Downtown Dubai’s lavish hotels means endless pampering and enjoyment; that is why it’s one of the most favourite attractions to many tourists and locals alike.

Check the below list of the best hotels in Downtown Dubai:

Palace Downtown (Rating:*****): Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Boulevard
Armani Hotel (Rating:*****): In Burj Khalifa, Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Boulevard
Address Dubai Mall (Rating:*****): In Dubai Mall, Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Boulevard
Vida Downtown (Rating:****): Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Boulevard
Ramada Downtown Dubai (Rating:****): Boulevard Street
Manzil Downtown (Rating:****): Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Boulevard


7. What are the best schools and nurseries in Downtown Dubai?
For your little ones, there is a nursery in Downtown with high educational levels, but for more nursery options you can find them nearby at Bay Square, which is a few minutes away from Downtown Dubai.
Blossom Downtown Nursery
Year Group: Nursery/4 months - 6 years
Curriculum: British
Location: Yansoon 7, Al Manzil District Downtown.
For your older children, the schools are across the road in nearby communities Jumeirah and Business Bay not far off.


8. What are the best supermarkets and grocery stores in Downtown Dubai?
In Downtown Dubai, buying all your home needs and food supplies isn’t a hassle. There’s a variety of top supermarkets in different areas easily accessible.

Here are the supermarkets that you can shop at:

Spinneys
Location: Old Town street

Hours: 8 am-10 pm

Spinneys Market Souk Al Bahar
Location: Souk Al Bahar

Hours: 8 am-11 pm

Carrefour
Location: Burj View Towers, Dubai Fountain Street

Hours: Open 24 hours

Spinneys Emaar Residence
Location: Emaar Residence

Hours: 8 am-11 pm.




9. What are the best health clinics and hospitals in Downtown Dubai?
As your health is the first priority, Downtown Dubai has the best clinics and healthcare centers with many specialties and top doctors:

Amana Healthcare
Location: Souk Al Bahar

Hours: Open 24 hours

Some Specialities: Pediatrics, Physiotherapy, Speech therapy, Rehabilitation After Trauma or Surgery


Occhiali Vision International
Location: Dubai Mall

Hours: 10 am-10 pm

Specialty: Optics.

Mediclinic
Location: Dubai Mall

Hours: 8 am-8 pm (Fridays 12 pm-5 pm)

Some Specialties: Cardiology, Dermatology, Dentistry, Paediatrics

The All England Practice
Location: 2205 Westbury offices, Burj Khalifa Boulevard

Hours: 7:30 am-9 pm (Saturdays 7:30 am-7:30 pm, Fridays off)

Some Specialties: Dentistry, General Health, Nutrition, Aesthetics.


10. What are the most popular restaurants in Downtown Dubai?
In Downtown Dubai there’s no average as it’s always the ultimate, especially when it comes to dining there. You have endless options of restaurants that serve different cuisines by the best chefs. Imagine eating by the view of Dubai Fountain and Burj Khalifa; nothing beats this!

Here are the best ones to try:

Thiptara (Zomato Rating: 4.4, Thai, Ground Level, Palace Downtown, Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Boulevard)
Todd English Food Hall (Zomato Rating: 4.3, American, Dubai Mall, Financial Center Road)
Mado (Zomato Rating: 4.2, Turkish, Dubai Mall, Financial Center Road)
Shakespeare and Co. (Zomato Rating: 4.1, Patisserie, Dubai Mall, Financial Center Road)
Karak House (Zomato Rating: 4, Middle Eastern, Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Boulevard)
Leila (Zomato Rating: 4, Lebanese, Standpoint B Tower, Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Boulevard)


11. What are things to do in Downtown Dubai?
The gem of Dubai, Downtown Dubai, has a great number of unique attractions that are on the wish list of many people around the world. You won’t run out of options there and you’ll enjoy every minute in these interesting spots.

Go to the Cinema in Dubai Mall. You can enjoy a movie at the Reel Cinemas at Dubai Mall where the latest movies are available. Not just that, you can have a mouthwatering snack or a lunch while waiting for your show time.
Have Fun at Dubai Ice Rink. Skating on the ice means unforgettable memories. It is exciting, so much fun, and enjoyable for both adults and the young ones, so don’t miss it!
Things to Do in Downtown Dubai During the Day

Relax at the Burj Park. How about chilling by the view of Burj Khalifa and the Dubai Fountain? Awesome! You can go to the park to sit by the greenery, play with your kids, do some yoga exercise, or walk your dog.
Go to the Dubai Aquarium and Underwater Zoo. It’s one of the largest aquariums in the UAE that contains different kinds of sea creatures. You’ll experience the underworld of the ocean but with zero risks.
Try Dubai Lake Fountain Ride. It’s a tour where you’ll have a look at Downtown Dubai’s landmarks from a boat to enjoy the breathtaking view of the iconic city.
Have breakfast at one of the restaurants by the fountain
Take your kids to Kidzania
Things to Do in Downtown Dubai at Night

Watch the Dubai Fountain. It’s one of the most interesting and breathtaking shows in Downtown Dubai. It’s a fountain that dances on the music along with light shows. You will really enjoy watching it.
Visit Burj Khalifa. It’s the tallest tower in the world and considered an architectural icon. You shouldn’t miss visiting it and taking photos beside it. Not just that, you can observe Dubai from above from its observation deck at the top

Having Dinner at Souk Al Bahar. There are a variety of restaurants with different cuisines at Souk Al Bahar where you can enjoy a tasty meal
Attend a Concert at Dubai Opera. It’s one of the top destinations for entertainment where you can watch some artistic shows. Top performers, dancers, bands, and singers come from all over the world to perform at Dubai Opera.
Go to The Dubai Mall. It’s so much fun in Dubai Mall with endless options of activities and shopping outlets. It’s one of the most touristic attractions in Dubai and the biggest shopping mall in the world.


12. What are the best shopping destinations in Downtown Dubai?
Here you’re in the ultimate shopping destination, Downtown Dubai is home to the most visited shopping mall in the UAE which is Dubai Mall. Check below the best destinations where you’ll have an outstanding shopping experience:

Dubai Mall. It is the largest mall in the world. Whether you’re an avid shopper or not, this mall will leave you mesmerized. It’s considered one of the most notable attractions in the country, in which visitors come from all over to enjoy luxury shopping. The distinctive mall has endless outlets of the most popular and high-end brands
Location: Financial Center Street, along El Sheikh Zayed Road.

Hours: 8 am -12 am

Some of the well-known brands at Dubai Mall:

Chanel
Dolce and Gabbana
Clarks
Fendi
Ralph Loren
Tommy Hilfiger
Adidas
Vans
Converse
Givenchy
Bulgari
Pandora
Souk Al Bahar. It’s a place with a classic Arabian design where the vintage style meets the modern one of Dubai Mall. At Souk Al Bahar, you’ll feel like you went back in time; it’s an authentic experience. Not just that, there are many shops, restaurants, and cafes where you’ll shop until you drop.
Location: Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Boulevard

Hours: 10 am-10 pm (Fridays 2 pm-10 pm)

Some of the shops at Souk Al Bahar (Open 10 am - 10 pm; Fridays 10 am-12 am):

Cashmir
Bateel
Intermix Gems
Emad Carpets
Gallery One


13. What property types are available in Downtown Dubai?
You have many options of lavish residential units for accommodation in Downtown Dubai Choose the suitable one for you from the wide range of options below:

Apartments (Sizes start from 41 meter square)
Penthouses (Sizes start from 186 meter square)
Villas (Sizes start from 286 meter square)
Hotel Apartments (Sizes start from 127 meter square)
Duplex (Sizes start from 161 meter square)
Full floor (Sizes start from 998 meter square)


14. What are the best towers and communities in Downtown Dubai?
Downtown Dubai is home to the world’s best towers. Not just that, it includes the most luxurious communities for residency; check them below:

Armani Residence
    Type of Residence: Residential tower and hotel
    Apartments: 1- to 2-bedroom apartments and hotel apartments
    Developer: Emaar
    Highlights:
    In Burj Khalifa
    Gym
    Spa
    Swimming pool
The Residences 1
    Type of Residence: Residential complex
    Apartments: 1- to 3-bedroom apartments
    Developer: Meydan
    Highlights
    In the heart of Dubai
    Shops nearby
    Open spaces
    Gym
    Pool
The Lofts Central
    Type of Residence: 34-storey tower
    Apartments: 1- to 2-bedroom apartments and penthouses
    Developer: Emaar
    Highlights
    Central tower of a complex
    Parking
    Gym
    Fitness center
    Concierge service
    Security
Burj Khalifa
    Type of Residence: More than 160 storeys tower
    Apartments: Apartments, penthouses, and full-floors
    Developer: Emaar
    Highlights
    The tallest tower in the world
    Gym
    Pool
    Gourmet
    Restaurants
8 Boulevard Walk
    Type of Residence: 37-storey building
    Apartments: Studios and 1-to 2-bedroom apartments
    Developer: Emaar
    Highlights
    Swimming pool
    Health club
    Security
    Sauna
Burj Al Nujoom
    Type of Residence: 34-storey tower
    Apartments: Studios, 1-to 3-bedroom apartments, and 2-to 3-bedroom penthouses.
    Developer: Al Thuraya Real Estate Development
    Highlights
    Healthclub
    24/7 security
    Parking


15. What are the events in Downtown Dubai?
Downtown Dubai is one of the most vibrant areas in the UAE. Many events take place there whether at the Dubai Opera, Dubai Mall, or Burj Khalifa.

Some of the events at Downtown Dubai:

New Year Countdown. This event takes place at the end of the year where the countdown starts by the light shows at Burj Khalifa
UAE National Day Celebrations. It takes place on the 2nd of December every year, where it marks the union between the 6 Emirates. Light shows of the Emirati Flag and the photo of the prince are presented on Burj Khalifa, and fireworks!
Some of the events previously hosted at Dubai Opera:
Plácido Domingo concert
Global performances from broadway
Concert for Omar Kamal the Palestinian singer and composer
Gladiator live orchestra

