Pet-Friendly Communities in Dubai
Looking for a new home that welcomes your furry friend? We’ve been there. Luckily, there are plenty of pet-friendly places in Dubai. These communities either have dog parks, plenty of spaces to walk your pets, or both.

Jumeirah Lake Towers (JLT)
Jumeirah Lake Towers is filled with people walking their pets around the lakes. It’s also home to the JLT Dog Park where dogs can roam free and socialize with other dogs. This makes JLT one of the most dog-friendly places in Dubai.

Plus, since many residential buildings in JLT allow pets, it’s one of the best places for renting pet friendly apartments in Dubai.

The Greens 
This area hits two birds with one stone as it’s both, a green and pet-friendly place in Dubai. This verdant community has plenty of walking paths, as well as The Greens Dog Park and Arrows and Sparrows Dog Cafe. Thus, The Greens is one of the most dog-friendly places in Dubai.

Jumeirah Village Circle (JVC)
JVC has plenty of parks, pet stores, and plenty of places to walk, making it a popular pet-friendly community in Dubai. You can also find many spacious villas for rent in JVC to fit you and your pet.

Downtown Dubai
Downtown Dubai is one of the most pet-friendly places in Dubai as it’s home to the Burj Park where pets get to play outdoors. There are also multiple dog-friendly cafes and restaurants in Downtown Dubai.

Town Square
Town Square is a gated community with its very own dog park. The Town Square Dog Park has grass, gravel, and playing equipment to entertain your dogs. This area offers reasonably-priced apartments, villas, and townhouses for sale and rent.

Dubai Investments Park (DIP)
DIP is a unique dog-friendly place in Dubai as it’s home to a luxury pet resort and spa, ‘My Second Home’. The resort features three pools, a large indoor dog park, a training academy, a grooming salon, and a doggie daycare. It’s a great place for your dog to get pampered.

Another pet care center in DIP is Urban Tails Pet Resort. It offers indoor and outdoor facilities, a pool, and play groups that fit each dog’s personality.

DIP is also home to ‘Green Community’, a gated residential area with plenty of greenery and lakes to walk your pet.

Not only is DIP one of the most dog-friendly places in Dubai, but it’s also quite affordable. Explore the apartments for rent in DIP to find a home for you and your furry friend.

The Springs
If living in a villa with a backyard and taking scenic walks by the lake with your pet sounds like your cup of tea, consider a Springs villa for rent or sale. Plus, The Springs has a dog park behind Springs 8 with plenty of equipment to entertain your dog. This leafy gated area is one of the most pet-friendly communities in Dubai.

Arabian Ranches
Arabian Ranches is an upscale gated villa community that offers large villas with spacious gardens where your pet can roam freely. If you step outside your home you’ll be greeted with many parks and lakes where you can walk your pet, as well as pet-waste bins throughout the area. There’s also a pet supply store - Pet’s Delight - in Arabian Ranches Souk. 

Dubai Hills Estate
Dubai’s real estate market is a gift that keeps on giving. One of the most prestigious developments here is Dubai Hills Estate, a gated community featuring luxurious apartments, villas, and townhouses surrounded by parks and green spaces. Like other dog-friendly places in Dubai, Dubai Hills Estate also has a dedicated dog park.

DAMAC Hills
DAMAC Hills is one of the most pet-friendly communities in Dubai thanks to its abundance of green spaces, walkways, and a dog park with different agility courses for big and small dogs.